You should understand what are the state-of-the-art approaches, how do they work, how are they implemented, how are they trained, and what are the practical challenges. You have to write your own code, implement your own ideas and evaluate how well they work. Ideally, you should start with a "recent" published method, understand it, implement it, extend it, and run experiments on suitable dataset(s) to evaluate how your ideas work.

No implementation restrictions. You can use any tools, libraries, and programming languages you want without any restrictions. We recommend Python with some standard neural network framework (e.g. PyTorch, TensorFlow). For image manipulation and basic machine learning look at OpenCV or numpy+scipy. The project does NOT have to run on any computers at the university.

You can use existing code (e.g. from GitHub); however, you have to clearly disclose it, you have to understand the code, and you have to make sure that your "additional contribution" is significant.


Timeline. The project has four checkpoints.
Proposal + consultation (6b)  - What are you going to do and how. What dataset are you going to use. What is your plan for experiments. 
Checkpoint + consultation (10b). Prepared datasets, experimental environment, baseline solution and early experiments.
Report and code submission (49b).
Poster session


Proposal. On 13.3. you have to submit 1 A4 in the system. Describe the problem you are solving, the approaches you draw inspiration from, data sets you are planning to use and a plan for your solution and experiments. You also have to include a link to a public GIT repository containing your project source codes. During the following week (16.-20.2.) you have to schedule a consultation with your project mentor to discuss the proposal.

Checkpoint. On 10.4. you have to submit your checkpoint in the system. You can, and should, reuse your project proposal (describe the problem, related work, datasets). This should have a form of a first draft of your final report (2-3 A4). In addition, the checkpoint has to include evaluation environment, baseline solution and first experiments. During the following week (13.-17.4.) you have to schedule a consultation with your project mentor to discuss the checkpoint.

Report and code should be submitted in IS VUT by 10.5. The Project report should be at least 3 A4 pages preferably typeset in LaTeX. The project report should have similar structure and content to a research paper or technical report. The report has to include task definition, short review of existing solutions or other relevant information sources, description of your solution(s), experiments, results, and conclusions (takeaway messages). It is not enough to provide a solution to a task - you should evaluate how well it works. The evaluation can be quantitative (e.g. accuracy on a standard dataset) or qualitative (e.g. user study).

We should be able to replicate your reported experiments using the submitted source codes.

Poster session will be held at the beginning of the exam period and it is very important as it strongly influences our perception of the whole project. Don't underestimate it. Attendance is mandatory for all team members. Be prepared for questions. You should prepare a poster (A2) describing your task, datasets, solutions, experiments and results.  We will print the poster for you. Don't explain existing methods (we generally know how they work). Explain your project - what was the task, what did you try, how well it works, what were the main challenges.

How to submit the projects:
in IS VUT
One *.zip file including all source codes, project report. If the file size limit is a problem, contact us. Please include examples of data and instructions how to use your code and tools.
Posters can be either included in the .zip file or sent by email later some time before the project session.